
Lund's Input Output Library (lion) by Jorgen Lundman <lundman@lundman.net>
(Document Version v1.1)


lion library was written by Jorgen Lundman <lundman@lundman.net>
chiefly as a development tool for himself, to aid in making quick
programs that are networked, non-blocking and portable.



Acknowledgements:

Special thanks for Design suggestions, Implementational ideas and
Debug sessions go to:

Brendan Knox <friar@drunkmonk.net>


The lovely and cute icon for LION library was done by:

Adam Fothergill <speedghost@btinternet.com>

... do check out Airburst and his other work on www.strangeflavour.com



Additions thanks to:

The #Amiga! chaps without whom we would not have enough pessimism in
the world!




NOTE regarding the documentation. I've tried my best to keep this up
to date, there is nothing more frustrating that having documentation
not match the sources. However, the most frequent mistake I have made
is in the change of the type of a "handle". You may find it referred
to as "void *", "connection_t *" or "lion_t *". It should be "lion_t
*" but I may have missed a few.




****************************************************************************



What is it, just how does the lion library work, and how do I use it?


What is it?

It's Lund's Input Output library, run best in non-blocking mode, to simply
development of your Networked Application. So far it compiles on any
Operating System I've had a chance to try it on. (NetBSD, FreeBSD,
OpenBSD, BSDI, Linux, IRIX, Windows, MacOsX, Solaris). It includes
nice and simple API to do any Networking, File IO and Pipe (fork,
system() and piping helper programs)



How to Link against it?

Compile the library, using the method most appropriate to your
system. You should then have a liblion.a and lion.h file. You want to
use the lion.h include in your code, and link against the library.



How do I use it in my code?

You need to initialise it, and release it once your program is
exiting, this is accomplished by calling:

		 int  lion_init(void);
		 void lion_free(void);

Return codes:
	   0 means success.


lion_free will iterate all connections and close them nicely for you,
releasing all memory. Incase your program have finished all IO, but is
not read to exit, all work is done.



The main outline of the code assume you call the lion_poll function
frequently, the more the better. It does all the connection state
logic, input parsing to strings and buffering with flow control. This
function can either be used to block, that is, used as the main call
to yield CPU until there is traffic on any socket. This is a common
method for servers, where nothing is done until there is network
traffic.

You can also call lion_poll in a polling sense, without blocking, which
returns immediately. This can be used in client situations, where the
CPU yield is elsewhere, often tied to the screen refresh.

	int lion_poll( int utimeout, int stimeout );

utimeout and stimeout represent the micro-seconds and seconds that
poll should block with. If both of these are 0, it is a poll method.

Return codes:
	   -1 means error (don't call lion_poll again - quit)
	   0  timeout occurred 
	   1  traffic/state change (normal return code).



How do I distinguish connections from each other?

You have two methods. each function takes that of a network handle,
which from your point of view is just a "void *" - although it will
give you type checking warnings if you use "lion_t *". A unique one is
returned for each new connection, communication input, and passed
along to all the output functions.

You can optionally specify a "user_data" void * pointer, to your own
structure or data. This is to help you gain faster access to your own
internal data. (Rather than having to search through it matching
against the network handle). However, if you do not care for this
feature, simply pass NULL.




How do I know what is going on, and where do I receive input?

All state changes and input is relayed to the caller, by the use of
one function lion_userdata, which should be defined by the user of the
library (presumably you!). It is called for all state changes, and
input on any socket.

Remember this function should be defined in _your_ code.

		 int lion_userinput( lion_t *handle, void *user_data, 
							 int status, int size, char *line);

The first two arguments are explained in the previous
paragraph. "Status" passed here is one of "enum lion_status" which is
defined as:

        LION_INPUT					- New input received on socket, one line.
        LION_BINARY                 - New input received on socket,
									  binary chunk.
		LION_BUFFER_EMPTY           - Output buffer is now empty
		LION_BUFFER_USED            - Required buffering on output 


        LION_CONNECTION_LOST        - Connection was lost/broken
        LION_CONNECTION_CLOSED      - Connection was closed, by you or peer.
        LION_CONNECTION_CONNECTED   - A pending connection was established.
        LION_CONNECTION_NEW         - A new (incoming) connection on a
									  listen socket.

		LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_ENABLED - Request for SSL was successful.
		LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_FAILED - failed to upgrade to SSL on socket.

		LION_FILE_OPEN				- File opened successfully.
		LION_FILE_CLOSED			- File reached EOF and has been closed.
		LION_FILE_FAILED			- Failed to open.

		LION_PIPE_FAILED			- fork, or child failed to start.
		LION_PIPE_RUNNING			- child successfully started to run.
		LION_PIPE_EXIT				- child has finished executing.

	





"line" and "size" passed here is encoded as follows:

LION_INPUT:
LION_BINARY:
		"size" has the number of bytes in input buffer "line". In
		binary mode this represents a chunk of data. You are
		guaranteed size being larger than 0.
		In text mode "line" points to a single line of input, guaranteed
		null-terminated, and without CR/NL and at least 1 byte in size. 


LION_CONNECTION_CLOSED:
LION_FILE_CLOSED:
LION_PIPE_EXIT:
		"Size" is 0 for sockets and files. (successful/normal close)
		In the case of pipes, "Size" will have the return code of the
		child if it is known, or -1 if it is not. If the return code
		is required, the application can request to receive a second
		LION_PIPE_EXIT event for when it is known. If the child never exits,
		this second events will never come, but the application can
		chose to kill() the child, since the pipe is known to be closed.
		

LION_CONNECTION_LOST:
LION_FILE_FAILED:
LION_PIPE_FAILED:
		"Size" has the error code, if know, of the failure, from errno.
		"Line" has the error message, typically from sys_errlist.


LION_BUFFER_EMPTY:
LION_BUFFER_USED:
		Buffering events. Discussed further in the flow control
		section, but generally when you receive a buffer used event
		you should pause your reader by calling
		lion_disable_read. Then enable read again by calling
		lion_enable_read once you receive buffer empty event.


LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_ENABLED:
LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_FAILED:
		If you have requested a secure SSL/TLS connection these events
		inform you whether or not the upgrade to secure connection
		succeeded or failed. It is up to the application as to what
		action should be taken. If in-secure connections is not
		allowed, calling lion_close upon receiving the secure failed
		event is sufficient. Or if no action is taken, communication
		continues as usual, but insecurely.



!NOTE!

Please be aware the any reference _what so ever_ to the handles after
either status LION_CONNECTION_LOST, LION_CONNECTION_CLOSED,
LION_FILE_CLOSED, LION_PIPE_EXIT [*], LION_FILE_FAILED or LION_PIPE_FAILED
is a _serious error_ and will most likely cause core dumps. It is best
to NULL any local reference to the handle should you store those.

[*] The exception here is that if the return code is not known, you
can ask for an additional event (one only) to be signalled when it is
known, if the child eventually does exit.

!NOTE!

* Advance note *

If you find it is getting messy having all events coming through the
one function, you can actually set a different event handler for any
lion_t *handler in your sources. See:

	  lion_t *lion_set_handler( lion_t *, lion_handler_t * );

which returned the previous handler. There is also a
	  lion_handler_t *lion_get_handler( lion_t *);

	  












Nice! How do I reply/send data?

There are three functions available to transmit data on a handle. You
can either use the low-level buffer send, which works just like the
libc write() call. Or you can use the supplied socket printf function
which lets you print formatted strings.

	  int  lion_printf(lion_t *handle, char const *fmt, ...);
	  int  lion_send(lion_t *handle, char *buffer, unsigned int len);
	  int  lion_output(lion_t *handle, char *buffer, unsigned int len);

All returns number of actual bytes sent.

It is preferred that you use lion_send() as it has the full logic with
compression. If compression is not desired using lion_output() is
sufficient. SSL is dealt with inside lion_output().






// ***************************************************************
// ********** Networking Functions
// ***************************************************************



Neat, so uh, how do I actually make a new connection?

Using the lion_connect call you generate a new network handle, placing
its socket in the pending state, allowing you to receive
LION_CONNECTION_CONNECTED status and, of course, actual data input.

	  lion_t *lion_connect( char *host, int port, unsigned long iface,
							int lion_flags, void *user_data );

host is a string, either "host.domain.com" or in Internet dot-notation
"192.168.0.1". Port is a number between 1 and 65535 inclusive.

Return codes:
	   void * - handle to new socket.
	   NULL   - Connection failed.

In case of failure, lion_userdata is called with the actual failure
code as described previously.

iface is optional, if you wish to bind to a specific interface for
outgoing packets. Generally you specify NULL to let the system do
automatic routing.

lion_flags are extra features settable. See the discussion regarding
the FLAGS elsewhere in the is document.

Please be aware that hostname lookups are _not_ nonblocking, so if
this is not desirable, pass it dot-notation syntax only. This is
considered as a potential future extention to lion library. If you
really want nonblocking name lookup, you can consider using the pipe
syntax to retrieve the IP.



What about a listening, incoming socket?

They aren't much harder would you believe, but they are a two-stage
process. That mean you first call lion_listen to configure your
listening socket. This then makes status LION_CONNECTION_NEW to be
signaled whenever there is a new connection. Your sources then should
call lion_accept which will return _a new_ network handle. The network
handle for the listen handle is still active (for any more
connections, but you can close this if new connections are not wanted)
and the new network handle representing the new connection.

	lion_t *lion_listen( int *port, unsigned long iface, 
						 int lion_flags, void *user_data );
    lion_t *lion_accept( lion_t *node, int close_old,
						 int lion_flags, void *user_data,
						 unsigned long *remhost, int *remport );

'port' here is the actual listen port you which to open, if you don't
care, and just want the system to open any available port, pass it
0. It will be filled in with the actual port opened. 

'interface' is an optional IP representing the Network Interface to
use. This is generally required on Multi-homed hosts, but in most
cases just pass 0.

lion_accept takes the network handle of the listen socket.

Return codes:
	   void * - handle to new socket
	   NULL   - failure.

In case of failure, lion_userdata is called with the actual failure
code as described previously.






Additionally, the Network Layer can do some compression for you, but
since it is essentially still is an ascii-line protocol, the
compressed data needs to be base64 encoded. So you don't get maximum
compression out of it.  You enable outgoing compression by calling:

		void lion_compress_level( int level );

Where 'level' is the number of bytes from which we start considering
compression. '0' disabled it. Say you set it to '256', only then if a
packet is larger than that do we attempt to compress. The packet may
still not be rejected should its compressed size, plus that over
base64 overhead, exceed that of the original size. Example compression
levels look like:

Output is 1035 bytes.
Compressed size: 236 bytes.
Base64 size: 322

Which can still be considered a significant improvement.





Miscellaneous functions to aid in your application:


		void lion_close( lion_t *handle );

Close a handle, making sure to flush any outstanding data. Once data
is flushed, the lion library automatically calls lion_disconnect() and
issues the user with the appropriate event. You do not need to call
either functions if you receive one of the closed, lost or failed
events.


		void lion_disconnect( lion_t *handle );

If you just want the handle closed without regard for any out-standing
data yet to be written you can call this instead of lion_close().



		enum lion_type lion_gettype( void *handle );

Returns the type of this handle. Currently the types are

		LION_TYPE_NONE   - Should never happen, and probably signifies an
						  internal error
		LION_TYPE_SOCKET - Handle is a network socket.
		LION_TYPE_FILE	- Handle is a regular file on disk.
		LION_TYPE_PIPE	- Handle is a pipe from lion_fork() or lion_system(). 



		lion_t *lion_adopt(int fd, enum lion_type type, void *user_data);

Take a file descriptor already opened (by application or otherwise)
and make it part of the lnet library engine. Generally not required as
it is by far better to use lnet API to open new entities, but useful
for situations where you want to perhaps process input from stdin. So
calling lion_adopt with "fileno(stdin)" can be useful.




		void			lion_set_userdata( void *handle, void *user_data );

Allows you to set a handles user_data at a later stage, if it is not
know by the time you call lion_connect/lion_accpet/lion_open etc.



		int           lion_isconnected(void *handle);

Returns non-zero/TRUE is the handle is currently in connection state.



		unsigned long lion_getsockname(void *handle);

Return the sockname of a connection. Usually required if you are to
send the IP of a socket, like that in FTP protocol. It can also be
used with the "interface" on a listening socket.




		  int           lion_fileno     ( void  *handle);

In some situations you may need to get at the actualy file-descriptor
used with a socket. This really is strongly discouraged but I have
left it in here. It is however expected to be used with file IO. For
example if you want to call lseek(), lstat() and other file IO
function. However, be aware of what function you use this
with. Calling close() using fileno() will confuse lion nicely.



		void          lion_find( int (*)compare(void *handle, void *arg1, void *arg2),
								void *arg1, void *arg2);

Looks complicated. It probably isn't much use for anything but
debugging but it lets you search, or iterate, through all sockets. You
call lion_find with a function you have defined yourself. With optional
arguments "arg1" and "arg2". For example:

int extra_iterate(void *vnode, void *arg1, void *arg2)
{
		printf("Called with node %p\n", vnode);
		return 1; // 0 stops iteration (node found), 1 or anything else
				  // keeps going
}

main()
{
	lion_find(extra_iterate, NULL, NULL);

}













Neat, so, what about some example source?

There should be a few examples in the sample/ directory, but, roughly
something like this should work: 


#include "net.h"

int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
		lion_init();
		lion_compress_level( 0 );  // No compression thanks

        lion_connect("localhost", 21, NULL);

		while( !do_exit) {

			   lion_poll(0, 10);

	    }

		lion_free();

}

void lion_userinput( lion_t *handle, 
                    void *user_data, int status, int size, char *line)
{

        switch( status ) {

        case LION_CONNECTION_LOST:
                printf("Connection was lost.\n");
                break;

        case LION_CONNECTION_CLOSED:
                printf("Connection was gracefully closed.\n");
                break;

        case LION_CONNECTION_CONNECTED:
                printf("Connection successfully established.\n");
                break;

        case LION_CONNECTION_INPUT:
                printf("Connection has input: '%s'\n", line);
				break;
		default:
				break;
        }

}




Cool, that's real easy to text protocols, but what about binary, or
chunk-by-chunk data transfer?

There is an API call to set a handle into binary mode:

	  void          lion_setbinary(lion_t *handle);

which usually would follow after lion_connect(), lion_accept(),
lion_open(), lion_fork() calls. There is no race condition as the
socket would not be put into read-fd until next iteration.

You can also switch to binary at any time, and it works like a toggle
so call it again to return back to text/line-by-line mode. When in
binary mode note that size will have the amount of bytes in the
buffer starting from "line". 

	case LION_INPUT:  // TEXT input
	case LION_BINARY:  // BINARY input












* SSL/TLS options.

If the network library was compiled with SSL/TLS support the following
additional functions can be called. The compiler switch "WITH_SSL" is
required during compile time, as well the ssl and crypto libraries.

The initialisation functions should be called and set before
lion_init() is called.

		   void          lion_ssl_ciphers( char *);
		   void          lion_ssl_rsafile( char *);
		   void          lion_ssl_egdfile( char *);

These functions are to set the list of ciphers, the RSA certificate
.pem file and the optional EGD socket path should the OS not have
/dev/urandom.

The default values of these functions should they not have been called
are:

cipher: "RC4-SHA:RC4-MD5:DHE-DSS-RC4-SHA:DES-CBC3-SHA:DES-CBC3-MD5:EDH-RSA-DES-CBC3-SHA:EDH-DSS-DES-CBC3-SHA"

rsafile: "lion.pem"

egdfile: "/var/run/egd-pool"


If you only want client-side SSL support, and therefore do not require
the use of a RSA certificate, simply let it fail to find the .pem
file. The network library with disable server-side SSL automatically.


To switch a socket into SSL/TLS use the following call:

int           lion_ssl_set    ( lion_t *, ssl_type_t );

The type is either LION_SSL_SERVER, or LION_SSL_CLIENT, to signify which
end of the SSL/TLS protocol you are attempting to emulate. If
TLS_SSL_SERVER is used, the RSA .pem file is required during
lion_init().

This function can be called on an already connected socket, as well as
a newly created socket. Once the outcome of the secure switch is
known, the network library issues an appropriate event via the API:

 LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_ENABLED
 LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_FAILED

The network library user is not required to perform any tasks with
these events, but if a secure socket is _required_ it is recommended
that the user calls "lion_disconnect()" if the
"LION_CONNECTION_SECURE_FAILED" event is received. The network layer
will then close the socket and post the appropriate event.


The type should either be LION_SSL_CLIENT, or LION_SSL_SERVER
depending on which end of the connection you wish to be. Generally, if
you are issuing a lion_connect() call, you should be LION_SSL_CLIENT.


If the events are not desired the user can optionally call:

   int           lion_ssl_enabled( lion_t * );

To determine the SSL/TLS status on a socket, from say within the
connected event and decide if "lion_disconnect()" should be called. 


To generate your own self-signed certificate you can use:

openssl req -new -x509 -days 365 -nodes -out lion.pem -keyout lion.pem




******  SSL and events, and auto sensing.

One concern worth mentioning is the order in which we receive events
with regards to connections and SSL enabled.

Simplest case.

- Application has already received the CONNECTED event on a socket,
  and has decided to attempt to upgrade it to SSL now. An example of
  this would be with the FTP protocol, after a "AUTH SSL" has been
  exchanged.



>>> lion_connect() and LION_SSL_CLIENT example: <<<

(CONNECTED event has occurred at some point, and possibly IO.)

[1] application calls lion_set_ssl();

[2] as we are already connected, lion attempt to start SSL.

[3] application receives either SECURITY_ENABLED, or SECURITY_FAILED
	depending on the outcome.



>>> lion_accept() and LION_SSL_SERVER example: <<<

(CONNECTED event has occurred at some point, and possibly IO.)

[1] application calls lion_set_ssl();

[2] as we are already connected, lion attempt to start SSL.

[3] application receives either SECURITY_ENABLED, or SECURITY_FAILED
	depending on the outcome.



Now for the slightly more complicated situations. The idea here is we
ask for SSL before we are even connected. You are then guaranteed to
receive either of the two SECURITY_ENABLED or SECURITY_FAILED events
_before_ you receive the CONNECTED.

The idea is then that your application can start to communicate its
own protocol when it receives an CONNECTED event. (By sending the
greeting or whatever is preferred). Your application can then chose to
only accept SSL connections: If you receive SECURITY_FAILED simply
call lion_disconnect(). You will then NOT receive the CONNECTED
event. Or do nothing in that event, and your CONNECTED event handler
can deal with both plain text, and SSL sockets.




>>> lion_connect() and LION_SSL_CLIENT example: <<<

[1] application calls lion_connect()
[2] application calls lion_set_ssl() immediately after.

[3] if the connection failed, lion posts CONNECTION_LOST
 [3a] stop

[4] if connection is successful, lion enters SSL authentication.

[5] if SSL authentication fails, lion posts SECURITY_FAILED
 [5b] if lion_close or lion_disconnect was called, lion posts CONNECTION_CLOSED
 [5c] or if we are still connected, lion posts CONNECTION_CONNECTED.
 [5d] stop

[6] if SSL authentication succeeds, lion posts SECURITY_ENABLED
 [6b] if lion_close or lion_disconnect was called, lion posts CONNECTION_CLOSED
 [6c] or if we are still connected, lion posts CONNECTION_CONNECTED.
 [6d] stop


>>> lion_accept() and LION_SSL_SERVER example: <<<

[1] application receives the CONNECTION_NEW event.
[2] application calls lion_accept()
[3] application calls lion_set_ssl() immediately after.

[4] if the connection failed, lion posts CONNECTION_LOST
 [4a] stop

[5] if connection is successful ....

[6] if connection has input, lion peeks to determine is it looks like
	SSL

[7] if appears not to be SSL, lion posts CONNECTION_CONNECTED 
  [7a] stop 

[8] if SSL authentication fails, lion posts SECURITY_FAILED
 [8b] if lion_close or lion_disconnect was called, lion posts CONNECTION_CLOSED
 [8c] or if we are still connected, lion posts CONNECTION_CONNECTED.
 [8d] stop

[9] if SSL authentication succeeds, lion posts SECURITY_ENABLED
 [9b] if lion_close or lion_disconnect was called, lion posts CONNECTION_CLOSED
 [9c] or if we are still connected, lion posts CONNECTION_CONNECTED.
 [9d] stop









*** Buffering? Flow-control ?

Ok that's cute, but here's a much harder situation, what about
flow-control, and buffering, between two sockets communicating?

Correct, it is more complicated, but also done for you. As lnet has no
way to know that two handles are supposedly connection, and there is
no real way for it to know that either, it is currently handled
differently. 


Basically, how it works is that the output calls (printf, output and
send) will always succeed. They do this by buffering if the write()
would block, and if the buffer is full, it doubles the buffer space. 

However, you could fairly quickly this could be dangerous. For example
if you have a handle that is reading at a high rate (like 1M/s) but
your sending socket is only going at a much slower rate. (say, 10k/s).

Within 10 seconds you would have a 10MB buffer!

So, the idea is, when a output command required the use of the output
buffer (internal to lnet) it will send the application the
LION_BUFFER_USED even.

The application should then call 
				void lion_disable_read( lion_t *handle );

on the _reading_ handle. This will stop input processing on the
incoming handle, so that your outgoing socket can catch up.

Once the output buffer has been emptied out, lion will issue the
application the LION_BUFFER_EMPTY event, and it should call
				void lion_enable_read( lion_t *handle );

On back you go. This slows down the reading to match that of the
writing speed. Buffer will probably never grow, unless the data is
expanded.






Diagrams of flow control:




Method two, text mode.
read handle            |    application          | write socket
----------------------------------------------------------------
                       |                         |               
line "hello" -->       |                         |               
                       |  --> "hello"            |               
                       |  parsing, action, send  |               
                       | data "world" -->        |               
                       |                         | --> "world"   
                       |                         | no or partial write
                       |                         | set write trigger to
                       |                         | empty buffer when 
                       |                         | possible, return
                       |  *[1]                   | <-- OK, but buffered.
                       |            OK+buff <--  |               
                       |  Signal read socket to  |               
                       |  sleep, request buffer  |               
                       |  empty event.           |               
                       | <-- sleep               |               
            sleep <--  |                         |               
Set socket to sleep    |                         |               
                       |  want buffer-empty      |               
                       |  event             -->  |               
                       |                         | --> arm event
                       |                         |               
                       |                         | Buffer emptied,
                       |                         | send event.   
                       |                         | <-- buffer empty
                       |       buffer empty <--  |               
                       | Send wake-up            |               
                       | <-- resume              |               
           resume <--  |                         |               
 set socket to read    |                         |               
 

*[1] - Note that this write is essentially successful, but buffered
 because of network lag. The application can continue to send data,
 which will continue to be buffered. The buffer should grow
 dynamically as well, transparently. Since the buffer grows you don't
 _technically_ need to issue the sleep, but with TCP timeouts being
 large, you could end up with a monstrous buffer if the read is
 frivolous.


Whether or not we send "OK, but buffered" immediately we need to
buffer, or only after some water-mark has been reached is
implementation specific. The OS will also buffer it, so if we need to
buffer, the OS has probably some 64k buffered already. Water mark may
not be required.










// ***************************************************************
// ********** File IO Functions
// ***************************************************************


What about if I want to read, or write files?

The best way is to use the lion API for file IO, which is:

	lion_t *lion_open( char *file, int flags, mode_t modes, 
					   int lion_flags, void *user_data );

Which works fairly similar to that of normal open(). File is the
filename, flags the usual (O_RDONLY, O_CREAT etc) flags, not it is
better if you do not use O_EXCLUSIVE as this does not exist under
WIN32. Instead, use "lion_flags" to indicate you want exclusive access
to the file.

Available lion_flags are:

	LION_FLAG_NONE       - Do nothing special
	LION_FLAG_FULFILL    - Always return a valid node, signal failure
						   with events.
	LION_FLAG_EXCLUSIVE  - Open file in exclusive mode.


You can call lion_disconnect(), lion_close(), lion_printf(),
lion_send() and lion_output() as per other methods.


NOTE: If you are opening a file for writing, you should call
lion_disable_read() afterwards. Otherwise the lion library will try to
read from it, receive EOF, and close it.


NOTE:
Currently SOCKETS and PIPES support no lion flags, but they SHOULD all
support LION_FLAG_FULFILL. 





// ***************************************************************
// ********** Pipe IO Functions
// ***************************************************************


Sometimes I'd like to call another program, and deal with IO from/to it?


You can fork off a child process and have a pipe to communicate with
it, as well as, executing another program and communicate with it. If
you wanted to, rather than using file IO to read file "/tmp/roger" you
can pipe off "cat /tmp/roger" instead. Although this isn't as
efficient of course, it is merely mentioned as an example.


To simply fork() a new process, and have CPU return to both child and parent:

   lion_t *lion_fork( int (*start_address)(lion_t *,void *),
					  int flags, void *user_data);


This differs slightly from traditional Unix fork() but this is to be
compatible with the Win32 version. There are some side issues that
needs to be made aware here. 

"start_address" is a function pointer, that takes a lion_t *handle
which is the pipe back to the parent process, plus your user_data
pointer, if set.


Generally, I suspect most users of this API probably will not call
lion_fork() directly, but one of the following functions.

NOTE - It is best if you call lion_fork() for any forking work you
need to do. However, an exception to that is if you want to daemonise,
you can just call normal fork() and do the usual dup2() business
before you call lion_init().

Please be aware that you can't just call "_exit()" as a child, as that
would take the parent process with you under Windows. If you need to
explicitly exit the child, and returning from your "start_address"
function is not feasible, you can call:

		 void lion_exitchild( int return_code );

Please be aware the under Win32, the lion_fork() function does not, in
fact, create a new process but merely a new thread. Lion could have
opted to go for a full fork() implementation like that of cygwin, but
decided it was undesirable. A new thread is quite fast, but certain
steps needs to be taken to ensure it works.

If you are defining variables globally (or statically to a file) you
need to ensure you get a new fresh copy of this variable after you
call lion_fork (only under Win32, but if you want to be portable, you
should use this) you can declare your variables as:

	   THREAD_SAFE lion_t *linked_list_head = NULL;   or
	   THREAD_SAFE unsigned int length = 0;

So, this has the nice side effect that you can call lion_fork(), and
in your child, (which is been released under Unix, and is thread_safe
under Windows) you can now call lion_poll() as per usual!

The only node already in the lion library, under effect from
lion_poll() is the pipe node back to parent, which you can use as per
normal to send and receive information between processes. 

NOTE:

You will most likely set a new event handlers (using lion_set_handle)
in your child, or suffer the consequences. (It will work, but under
Win32 it is messy)

However, if you fork just to run another program, use....




	lion_t *lion_execv( char *base, char **argv, int with_stderr,
						void *user_data );

Start a child process to communicate with. Works very similar to that
of execv() (which is the function it eventually calls.)

You need to prepare the argv[] list before you call this. You use
"with_stderr" to determine if you want "stderr" to be redirected as
input to the parent, or have it redirected to /dev/null.





	lion_t *lion_system( char *cmd, int with_stderr,
						 void *user_data );


Wrapper to lion_execv() which takes a string of the command you wish
to execute, break it up into argv[] based on spaces, and is "" aware.






// ***************************************************************
// ********** Rate limiting in kilo bytes per second.
// ***************************************************************

Any lion handle can be rate limited. This means you can set the
maximum speed of input, and output. Please be aware that it is more
efficient to limit a reader as opposed to a writer, but not always
possible. The writer rate limit is purely advisory and up to you to
follow it.

Use:

		void lion_rate_in ( lion_t *handle, int cps);
		void lion_rate_out( lion_t *handle, int cps);

By setting the input rate limit, your input handler will only get
events when the rate of input is less or equal to that of your "cps"
setting. Be aware that this is only as accurate as the frequency of
which you call lion_poll(). Ie, if you want 1k/s, then you need to
call lion_poll() which a sleep of 1 second, or less. If you need only
8k/s, you can call lion_poll with a sleep of 8 seconds etc. (Certainly
if you only have one connection going).

The output rate limit works by sending "fake" BUFFER_USED events when
the output rate as exceeded you specified rate. You should then stop
sending until BUFFER_EMPTY is received, and if you do this for
buffering anyway, it is automatic. If you chose to ignore the
buffering events, the output rate limit is not enforced.





*** CAVEAT


Finally, the biggest and most common mistake done when using this
network library, including when I use it myself :) is that I forget to
pass the actual handle rather than whatever node I use internally. If
I have defined a "net_node" structure to hold the information
required, as well as the "handle" used when talking to the network
library, I often find myself calling the lion_* function with just
"net_node" as opposed to "net_node->handle". Unfortunately, you would
normally be saved from this with type checking, but as handle is "void
*" it is ignored. This should probably be changed. And has been, you
can now use "lion_t *" in your code.







*** TO ADD


Semantics. If the reader socket is closed (finished) lnet will issue
_CLOSED even as per normal, and the other end is _also_ closed
automatically! This takes care of the most common situation where the
application want to do a 1:1 transfer.

However, you can optionally call lion_untie() on the handles in the
_CLOSED event, this tells lnet you wish to keep the writer open. lnet
will then re-issue the _CONNECTED event to tell the application that
the socket is once again ready and available. You could then open a
new handle, and tie again. 

For example, to send a whole score of items down one writer pipe, you
could have

case LION_CONNECTION_CONNECTED:

   for item in (big list of items)
      handle = lion_connect on $item
      lion_tie(handle, writer);
	  
   break;

case LION_CONNECTION_CLOSED:
   lion_untie(handle);
   break;





UDP?

Perhaps we should add UDP to the lion library, that way it can also be
used for applications such as games. There are some issues with UDP
that is worth pondering before implementation.

You also open a UDP socket, so there is no concept of connect or
accept (yes, you _can_ do connection oriented UDP, but most people
don't). So, since you could get packets from anywhere, and send to
anywhere but we still want to tie a handle with any object (to assign
in your application to a entity-object).

So, when receiving a UDP packet, it perhaps arrives as "anonymous" if
the application then decides this should be its own handle, you
request it (passing along ip and port). The lion library then
remembers this, and any future packets from ip/port is received has
the new "handle". This would mean searching a list for the ip/port in
lion though... better way?

Sending, similar thing, you would take your UDP socket, tie it to an
IP/port you want to send to. Any reply from the same gives the
handle. Any reply from unknown ip/port (even if ip is the same) is an
anonymous input.

Comments?

The searching for IP on input could be sped up with a hash, even if we
only hash on the last byte of the IP.

LION_UDP_ANONYMOUS:
LION_INPUT:
LION_BINARY:
LION_UDP_TIMEOUT

There is no CLOSE or LOST with UDP unfortunately, but the application
should be able to set a timeout, and get a TIMEOUT event if there has
been no traffic from that user. 

Since UDP packets have a maximum size of around 1500bytes (like
normal) and some places will fragment and other just drop we may which
to supply API calls to split to multiples or attempt "fragment", or to
return error. Will implement if there is need.

Another feature people may eventually want is sequencing of UDP
packets, and an option to guarantee arrival order based on it,
dropping duplicates.

Additionally, people may want guaranteed delivery, with sliding window
ack'ing system too.





